Before requesting any edits to this protected article, please familiarise yourself with reliable sourcing requirements.
Before posting an edit request on this talk page, please read the reliable sourcing and original research policies. These policies require that information in Wikipedia articles be supported by citations from reliable independent sources, and disallow your personal views, observations, interpretations, analyses, or anecdotes from being used.
Only content verified by subject experts and other reliable sources may be included, and uncited material may be removed without notice. If your complaint is about an assertion made in the article, check first to see if your proposed change is supported by reliable sources. If it is not, it is highly unlikely that your request will be granted. Checking the archives for previous discussions may provide more information. Requests which do not provide citations from reliable sources, or rely on unreliable sources, may be subject to closure without any other response.
The contentious topics procedure applies to this article. This article is related to post-1992 politics of the United States and closely related people, which is a contentious topic. Furthermore, the following rules apply when editing this article:Editors who repeatedly or seriously fail to adhere to the purpose of Wikipedia, any expected standards of behaviour, or any normal editorial process may be blocked or restricted by an administrator. Editors are advised to familiarise themselves with the contentious topics procedures before editing this page.The contentious topics procedure can be used against any editor who repeatedly or seriously fails to adhere to the purpose of Wikipedia, any expected standards of behaviour, or any normal editorial process. Contentious topics sanctions can include blocks, topic-bans, or other restrictions.


NOTE: It is recommended to link to this list in your edit summary when reverting, as:[[Talk:Donald Trump#Current consensus|current consensus]] item [n]To ensure you are viewing the current list, you may wish to purge this page.
01. Use the official White House portrait as the infobox image. (Dec 2016, Jan 2017, Oct 2017, March 2020) (temporarily suspended by #19 following copyright issues on the inauguration portrait, enforced when an official public-domain portrait was released on 31 October 2017)
02. Show birthplace as "Queens, New York City, U.S." in the infobox. (Nov 2016, Oct 2018, Feb 2021) "New York City" de-linked. (September 2020)
03. Omit reference to county-level election statistics. (Dec 2016)
05. Use Trump's annual net worth evaluation and matching ranking, from the Forbes list of billionaires, not from monthly or "live" estimates. (Oct 2016) In the lead section, just write: Forbes estimates his net worth to be [$x.x] billion. (July 2018, July 2018) Removed from the lead per #47. 
06. Do not include allegations of sexual misconduct in the lead section. (June 2016, Feb 2018)
08. Mention that Trump is the first president elected "without prior military or government service". (Dec 2016)
09. Include a link to Trump's Twitter account in the "External links" section. (Jan 2017) Include a link to an archive of Trump's Twitter account in the "External links" section. (Jan 2021)
12. The article title is Donald Trump, not Donald J. Trump. (RM Jan 2017, RM June 2019)
13. Auto-archival is set for discussions with no comments for 14 days. Manual archival is allowed for (1) closed discussions, 24 hours after the closure, provided the closure has not been challenged, and (2) "answered" edit requests, 24 hours after the "answer", provided there has been no follow-on discussion after the "answer". (Jan 2017) (amended with respect to manual archiving, to better reflect common practice at this article) (Nov 2019)
14. Omit mention of Trump's alleged bathmophobia/fear of slopes. (Feb 2017)
20. Mention protests in the lead section with this exact wording: His election and policies have sparked numerous protests. (June 2017, May 2018) (Note: In February 2021, when he was no longer president, the verb tense was changed from "have sparked" to "sparked", without objection.)
22. Do not call Trump a "liar" in Wikipedia's voice. Falsehoods he uttered can be mentioned, while being mindful of calling them "lies", which implies malicious intent. (RfC Aug 2017, upheld by RfC July 2024)
25. In citations, do not code the archive-related parameters for sources that are not dead. (Dec 2017, March 2018)
26. Do not include opinions by Michael Hayden and Michael Morell that Trump is a "useful fool […] manipulated by Moscow" or an "unwitting agent of the Russian Federation". (RfC April 2018)
27. State that Trump falsely claimed that Hillary Clinton started the Barack Obama birther rumors. (April 2018, June 2018)
28. Include, in the Wealth section, a sentence on Jonathan Greenberg's allegation that Trump deceived him in order to get on the Forbes 400 list. (June 2018, June 2018)
29. Include material about the Trump administration family separation policy in the article. (June 2018)
30. Supersedes #24. The lead includes: "Many of his comments and actions have been characterized as racially charged or racist." (RfC Sep 2018, Oct 2018, RfC May 2019)
31. Do not mention Trump's office space donation to Jesse Jackson's Rainbow/Push Coalition in 1999. (Nov 2018)
32. Omit from the lead the fact that Trump is the first sitting U.S. president to meet with a North Korean supreme leader. (RfC July 2018, Nov 2018)
33. Do not mention "birtherism" in the lead section. (RfC Nov 2018)
34. Refer to Ivana Zelníčková as a Czech model, with a link to Czechs (people), not Czechoslovakia (country). (Jan 2019)
37. Resolved: Content related to Trump's presidency should be limited to summary-level about things that are likely to have a lasting impact on his life and/or long-term presidential legacy. If something is borderline or debatable, the resolution does not apply. (June 2019)
38. Do not state in the lead that Trump is the wealthiest U.S. president ever. (RfC June 2019)
39. Supersedes #21 and #36. Do not include any paragraph regarding Trump's mental health or mental fitness for office. Do not bring up for discussion again until an announced formal diagnosis or WP:MEDRS-level sources are provided. This does not prevent inclusion of content about temperamental fitness for office. (RfC Aug 2019, July 2021)
40. Include, when discussing Trump's exercise or the lack thereof: He has called golfing his "primary form of exercise", although he usually does not walk the course. He considers exercise a waste of energy, because he believes the body is "like a battery, with a finite amount of energy" which is depleted by exercise. (RfC Aug 2019)
41. Omit book authorship (or lack thereof) from the lead section. (RfC Nov 2019)
42. House and Senate outcomes of the impeachment process are separated by a full stop. For example: He was impeached by the House on December 18, 2019, for abuse of power and obstruction of Congress. He was acquitted of both charges by the Senate on February 5, 2020. (Feb 2020)
43. The rules for edits to the lead are no different from those for edits below the lead. For edits that do not conflict with existing consensus: Prior consensus is NOT required. BOLD edits are allowed, subject to normal BRD process. The mere fact that an edit has not been discussed is not a valid reason to revert it. (March 2020)
44. The lead section should mention North Korea, focusing on Trump's meetings with Kim and some degree of clarification that they haven't produced clear results. (RfC May 2020)
46. Use the caption "Official portrait, 2017" for the infobox image. (Aug 2020, Jan 2021)
47. Do not mention Trump's net worth or Forbes ranking (or equivalents from other publications) in the lead, nor in the infobox. (Sep 2020)
48. Supersedes #45. Trump's reaction to the COVID-19 pandemic should be mentioned in the lead section. There is no consensus on specific wording, but the status quo is Trump reacted slowly to the COVID-19 pandemic; he minimized the threat, ignored or contradicted many recommendations from health officials, and promoted false information about unproven treatments and the availability of testing. (Oct 2020, RfC Aug 2020)
49. Supersedes #35. Include in lead: Trump has made many false and misleading statements during his campaigns and presidency, to a degree unprecedented in American politics. (Dec 2020)
50. Supersedes #17. The lead sentence is: Donald John Trump (born June 14, 1946) is an American politician, media personality, and businessman who served as the 45th president of the United States from 2017 to 2021. (March 2021), amended (July 2021), inclusion of politician (RfC September 2021)
51. Include in the lead that many of Trump's comments and actions have been characterized as misogynistic. (Aug 2021 and Sep 2021)
52. Supersedes #23. The lead should contain a summary of Trump's actions on immigration, including the Muslim travel ban (cf. item 23), the wall, and the family separation policy. (September 2021)
53. The lead should mention that Trump promotes conspiracy theories. (RfC October 2021)
54. Include in the lead that, quote, Scholars and historians rank Trump as one of the worst presidents in U.S. history. (RfC October 2021) Amended after re-election: After his first term, scholars and historians ranked Trump as one of the worst presidents in American history. (November 2024)
55. Regarding Trump's comments on the 2017 far-right rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, do not wiki-link "Trump's comments" in this manner. (RfC December 2021)
56. Retain the content that Trump never confronted Putin over its alleged bounties against American soldiers in Afghanistan but add context. Current wording can be altered or contextualized; no consensus was achieved on alternate wordings. (RfC November 2021) Trump's expressions of doubt regarding the Russian Bounties Program should be included in some capacity, though there there is no consensus on a specific way to characterize these expressed doubts. (RfC March 2022)
57. Do not mention in the lead Gallup polling that states Trump's the only president to never reach 50% approval rating. (RfC January 2022)
58. Use inline citations in the lead for the more contentious and controversial statements. Editors should further discuss which sentences would benefit from having inline citations. (RfC May 2022, discussion on what to cite May 2022)
59. Do not label or categorize Trump as a far-right politician. (RfC August 2022)
60. Insert the links described in the RfC January 2023.
61. When a thread is started with a general assertion that the article is biased for or against Trump (i.e., without a specific, policy-based suggestion for a change to the article), it is to be handled as follows:
This does not apply to posts that are clearly in bad faith, which are to be removed on sight. (May 2023)
62. The article's description of the five people who died during and subsequent to the January 6 Capitol attack should avoid a) mentioning the causes of death and b) an explicit mention of the Capitol Police Officer who died. (RfC July 2023)
63. Supersedes #18. The alma mater field of the infobox reads: "University of Pennsylvania (BS)". (September 2023) 
64. Omit the {{Very long}} tag. (January 2024)
65. Mention the Abraham Accords in the article; no consensus was achieved on specific wordings. (RfC February 2024)
66. Omit {{infobox criminal}}. (RfC June 2024)
67. The "Health habits" section includes: "Trump says he has never drunk alcohol, smoked cigarettes, or used drugs. He sleeps about four or five hours a night." (February 2021)

Hello all, I see Consensus #30, based particularly on this Request for Comment says: "The lead includes: "Many of his comments and actions have been characterized as racially charged or racist."" I can also see that this is the only mention of "racially charged" in the article. Would editors here support removal of "racially charged" until such text is supported in the body? Rollinginhisgrave (talk) 04:19, 12 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
I have created a page User:Rollinginhisgrave/Trump racism descriptor as a space for research on this article. I intended to use academic sources in Racial views of Donald Trump as the basis to follow summary style, but extremely disappointingly, only six of the almost 500 sources are academic.
This is collaborative so please help! If this can be pinned to the top of this page for a short while it would be valuable. Remember, for WP:WEIGHT, we are not merely looking for multiple sources describing him or his comments/actions as racist/racially charged, but for the weighted response of high-quality academic sources to these questions. Rollinginhisgrave (talk) 10:21, 12 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
Word counts by paragraph and total. 
05 Nov 2024 — 614 = 29 + 101 + 106 + 156 + 101 + 121
12 Nov 2024 — 657 = 46 + 101 + 116 + 175 + 176 + 43
19 Nov 2024 — 418 = 62 + 76 + 153 + 127
Hi. I added 57 words to the thin content of the Religion section. Since these words were reverted with concern about length and mentions elsewhere in article, please discuss the added content here and the quality of the Reliable sources involved:
Religion is a major issue in Trump's personal life, especially because the personal is political for his relationship with Christian constituencies. In the current version, the word "Christian" only appears once in the article. I believe these 5 changes are written from a Neutral point of view, clearly Verified, and involve due Weight to a significant aspect of the subject's life. @Space4Time3Continuum2x,  thanks in advance for comments. ProfGray (talk) 20:29, 30 September 2024 (UTC)[reply]
Factoid #2 needs to be removed and I'll acquiesce to those above who say that #1 and #3 should go. In general, it's more important how Trump is perceived by the religious right than trivialities about the few times he actually attended church. pbp 20:45, 1 October 2024 (UTC)[reply]
Based on discussion above, I'm adding a Christian nationalism sentence to a subsection on Trump's campaign rhetoric: "Without being conventionally religious, Trump used Christian nationalist rhetoric that portrayed Christians under siege in America and that promised its renewal as a Christian nation." This is based on the most cited authors on Christian nationalism in contemporary American politics (this article has been cited 500+ times): Whitehead, Andrew L., Samuel L. Perry, and Joseph O. Baker. "Make America Christian again: Christian nationalism and voting for Donald Trump in the 2016 presidential election." Sociology of religion 79, no. 2 (2018): 147-171. esp pages 150-153. It'd be good to have at least one sentence on his coalition building with evangelical / conservative Christians. ProfGray (talk) 17:45, 23 October 2024 (UTC)[reply]
I don't care to take on uninvolved closure here, but the last comment of any substance was on 30 October. What do the participants think? Close as resolved or no? ―Mandruss ☎ 19:05, 14 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
A few hours later, here nonetheless.
Roughly rewritten proposal, clarifying "play a significant role": For decades, Trump and his family attended the Marble Collegiate Church, maintaining a personal relationship with Protestant preacher Norman Vincent Peale. Peale, who emphasized a pro-business, psychology-based ministry, is credited with influencing Trump's business ethic that emphasized "success" during the 1980s. Following his parent's deaths, the non-denominational televangelist Paula White served as Trump's personal pastor, being frequently consulted and sometimes defended by Trump. After his daughter Ivanka married Jewish businessman Jared Kushner in 2009, Trump successfully courted the Democratic Jewish vote, employing the help of Kushner and his family to write policy and reach Israeli organizations and Jewish voters. Rollinginhisgrave (talk) 13:06, 21 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
OK. Here's my proposal: that a section be added that reports the public discussion of concerns about his health, which are now a major part of public discourse. It should obviously not itself speculate on Trump's mental fitness, only report on the comments of WP:RS according to the WP:NPOV guidelines. This would not violate WP:MEDRS, because it would not express an opinion on his mental state, only report on the opinions of others. Opinions, please? — The Anome (talk) 11:32, 16 October 2024 (UTC)[reply]
What particularly irritates me here is the double standard of invoking WP:MEDRS in regard to this. No-one is asking for Wikipedia to state that Trump has dementia, or that he has suffered a medical cognitive decline; the issue here is that his increasingly erratic behavior has become a significant news story, and is being reported in reputable MSM sources such as the NYT and WP, who have bent over backwards to be fair to Trump, wouldn't have dreamed of doing eveen a few months ago. Yet for some reason, we're not allowed to use these WP:RS to report these events and the public concern about them in the MSM.  This  is a profoundly un-encyclopedic things to do that breaks the fundamental WP:NPOV policy. Rejecting any mention of significant major MSM coverage because you don't like it is just another form of WP:OR, — The Anome (talk) 17:02, 23 October 2024 (UTC)[reply]

@Zaathras My edit was not whitewashing. It clarifies the view of the source, that "research suggests Trump's rhetoric may have caused an increased incidence of hate crimes": a correlation, while not the opinion of the experts quoted in the source that it necessarily involves causation. As concerns the other edit, the "clunky needless wording" is a necessary detail. As it is now, it sounds like its saying that Trump dictated the letter to some secretary or whatnot, without the doctor present. In reality, he dictated it to the doctor, who told him what he couldn't put in it. Anotherperson123 (talk) 22:39, 17 October 2024 (UTC)[reply]
is attributed to ten sources in the body, Zenomonoz soibangla (talk) 05:13, 23 October 2024 (UTC)[reply]
https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Donald_Trump&diff=prev&oldid=1252842766
This is literally done for everyone on Wikipedia except for Trump. This is a wilful hiding of information that is favorable to Trump and hides this important information from his google search summary. Please add, convicted felon to his intro to show an unbiased article. 2600:1700:5240:E50:549D:94AA:51E0:CB3 (talk) 15:13, 24 October 2024 (UTC)[reply]
I am seeking a consensus to add these links to the lead: 
What do y'all think? Cessaune [talk] 20:51, 26 October 2024 (UTC)[reply]
By reading the lead, this is an exceptionally different read than other politican pages on wikipedia. It is almost exclusivelly composed of criticism. It feels extremelly strange that there is almost no direct analysis of how Trump won the US election. This is the only phrase that refers to it:
"During the campaign, his political positions were described as populist, protectionist, and nationalist."
It feels so underdeveloped, indirect, as if it was avoiding the topic entirelly. Am I the only one feeling that this is an issue? Cinemaandpolitics (talk) 10:58, 27 October 2024 (UTC)[reply]
I changed the caption from "Trump at the New York Military Academy, 1964" to read "Trump 1964 yearbook picture with medals borrowed from a classmate", with cite, and was reverted with the editsum "Unnecessary and conveys less information". (I've since corrected the caption; New York Military Academy is a name like Whittier High School.) My proposed caption needs to be corrected, too: "Trump's 1964 yearbook picture with medals borrowed from a classmate". It conveys more information than the current one which doesn't say that it's a yearbook picture; the name of the school is unnecessary since you can read it in Early life. Borrowed medals: if Trump had been a member of the military, that would have been called "stolen valor". 

If Donald resented taking orders from a contemporary like Witek, he still craved the tokens of status conferred by the system. Like most cadets, he had earned a few medals for good conduct and being neat and orderly. But his friend, Michael Scadron, had a full dozen by their senior year. On the day yearbook portraits were being taken, Donald showed up in Scadron’s barracks room and asked to borrow his dress jacket with the medals attached, Scandron told us. Donald wore those medals for the portrait, perplexing some of his fellow cadets. “He’s wearing my medals on his uniform,” Scadron later recalled. “I didn’t care one way or the other.”
Vanity Fair published a longer excerpt.  It's the earliest example we have for Trump lying about his accomplishments/successes, illusion rather than reality. IMO that's less trivial than the yearbook picture itself. Opinions? Space4Time3Continuum2x🖖 17:29, 29 October 2024 (UTC)[reply]
I've now reverted the text to the longstanding version which wasn't the one I edited yesterday — another editor edited part of the sentence on October 16, so IMO 1RR wouldn't apply.  The wording of the sentence is a separate issue from the caption. As for the school using the definite article when referring to itself, they do and they don't. (And does it matter? See Trump University.) Here are three examples for the school referring to itself and another private school the correct way: "At NYMA, we’re dedicated to preparing you for the future"; "At NYMA, our partnership with Canterbury Brook Academy (CBA) significantly enriches students’ holistic development"; "The mission of New York Military Academy is to develop the cadets in mind, body, and character".  And an example of the incorrect way: "The mission of the New York Military Academy is to develop the cadets in mind, body, and character". (Not a typo, same sentence, once with "the" and once without.)  Names of colleges, universities, and other schools. Use "the" if the school’s title includes "of" or "for" (University of Maryland, Perkins School for the Blind). Don't use "the" if the school is named for a person or place (Baylor University, Harvard University).
Reason: Trump didn't enter of his own volition, his parents entered him at NYMA. Kranish/Fisher: "Near the end of seventh grade, Fred discovered Donald’s knives and was infuriated to learn about his trips into the city. He decided his son’s behavior warranted a radical change. In the months before eighth grade, Fred Trump enrolled Donald at the New York Military Academy, a boarding school 70 miles from Jamaica Estates." Gwenda Blair: "In 1959, when he was thirteen, Donald Trump went off to New York Military Academy (NYMA) ... an institution that in the fall of 1959 resembled a child's toy soldier set". Space4Time3Continuum2x🖖 12:53, 30 October 2024 (UTC)[reply]
He grew up with older siblings Maryanne, Fred Jr., and Elizabeth and younger brother Robert in the Jamaica Estates neighborhood of Queens, and attended the private Kew-Forest School from kindergarten through seventh grade.[1][2][3] At age 13, he entered the New York Military Academy, a private boarding school.[4]He grew up with older siblings Maryanne, Fred Jr., and Elizabeth and younger brother Robert in the Jamaica Estates neighborhood of Queens.[5] He attended the private Kew-Forest School through seventh grade[1][6] and New York Military Academy, a private boarding school, from eighth through twelfth grade.[4][6]Making sure this isn't archived — someone started another discussion (Inclusion of release of grades). Space4Time3Continuum2x🖖 20:02, 11 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
I have read more than 10,000 biographical articles in Wikipedia, and I haven't seen a single article which is written in a more biased, and pessimistic tone than Donald Trump. Please be professional and at least re-write the entire first section again in a more neutral tone. The entire world is reading this article and it must be written professionally. Thank you. Nir007H (talk) 10:05, 6 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
“The Mueller investigation determined that Russia interfered in the 2016 election to favor Trump.”
This statement constitutes false information. There is no apparent direct source cited and if you click on the link within the statement it directs you to a page that says this near the end:
“The 448-page Mueller Report, made public in April 2019, examined over 200 contacts between the Trump campaign and Russian officials but concluded that there was insufficient evidence to bring any conspiracy or coordination charges against Trump or his associates.”
Thus, not only is the former statement false and a general misrepresentation of the facts of the report, it’s also contradictory to the embedded link.
If the goal is impartiality and to represent the facts as they are, then I should think there would be no issue with my strong recommendation that this statement be removed. 2600:1014:A021:A239:C4A2:F30D:B193:59A7 (talk) 11:10, 6 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
lead is too long as it contains more than 4 para. Can we make it short ? Astropulse (talk) 14:04, 6 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
It seems an attempt was made to shorten the lead and the template was removed, then the content was restored to bloat the lead again but the template was not restored. 
The documentation of Template:Lead too long speaks of a 250 to 400 word standard. The lead section of this article is currently over 650 words!
Trying to fix the problem of too many paragraphs by combining the excess paragraphs into gigantic paragraphs doesn't address the issue. Trump still hasn't even been inaugurated for his second term but the lead is substantially longer than other presidents. By my count, Trump's lead currently contains almost 1,000 more characters than FDR's lead, a man who was in office for 12 YEARS and is one of the most influential presidents in American history! This is purely recentism, we need to apply the WP:20YEARTEST.
The Felony thing in like the opening sentence or second sentence I think is excessive, where it was before was next to the stuff about Stormy Daniel’s/Insirrection/etc. that is more logical, but someone reverted it and added it back to the first part. It’s one of those things where we gotta figure out how to level the weight, there’s a whole part in the lead right now addressing all the stuff so I think that’s fine but I would like to hear some unbiased consensus. Eg224 (talk) 22:00, 6 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
The weight and emphasis given to facts in the lede should reflect that given in the body. Given the weighting currently seen in the body, a high placement is appropriate. If editors want to move it down, they should contest the weighting given in the body. That is the place to evaluate DUE/UNDUE. Rollinginhisgrave (talk) 03:20, 10 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
Please folks. We don't need the descriptive "current" in front of "president-elect".AFAIK, there's no US bios using "former president-elect". Therefore no chance of confusion, between bios. GoodDay (talk) 22:06, 6 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
The lead should include a link to the Donald Trump and fascism article that we agreed to keep. This is a very significant viewpoint, as the article explains, with half the electorate holding that position. It has its own lengthy article, is a very serious discussion, is covered in the body, and should be included as a link to the in-depth article in the lead. --Tataral (talk) 01:08, 7 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
Doesn't belong in the lead. PackMecEng (talk) 14:14, 7 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
Since no editor has offered any kind of rationale against inclusion of this topic—already deemed significant enough for a stand-alone article at AfD—there seems to be Wikipedia:Consensus for inclusion. All we've seen so far are "doesn't belong" without any kind of policy-based rationale. Here on Wikipedia such expressions of WP:IDONTLIKEIT don't really hold any weight. --Tataral (talk) 00:30, 9 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
This is blatant vandalism. The discussion above concerns inclusion in the lead. Removing, out of spite, a link in the body to an article directly covering  the topic being discussed there (the content had already been in the body of the article for a while) that was kept in the AfD discussion because you disagree with the AfD result is vandalism. Also, it's a blatant lie that any editor has opposed the link being included there, not to mention presented any policy-based reason to censor an article it was decided to keep on AfD by omitting the link to it when the topic is directly mentioned. --Tataral (talk) 03:01, 7 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
I see that an edit war is developing over trying to keep the link to the other page. I don't see a consensus for the page linkage. I'm not interested in such an edit war, so yas can work it out yourselves. GoodDay (talk) 03:07, 7 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
I recently added mention of Trumpism, the political movement created by Donald Trump and his cult of personality to the page with an abundance of reliable sources (I know the term can be contentious). I recently added it to the lead but there was discussion from @3Kingdoms who stated that "I do not see consenus or RFC for this. The source certainly warrant merit, but I think we should discuss first." 
As the lead has recently changed, I would request that the following sentence (highlighted in green) have the bolded parts added to the lead with the following references per Talk:Donald Trump#Current consensus, item 20.
1: (Add a period here and split the sentence from the section in #2.)
Many of Trump's comments and actions have been characterized as racially charged, racist, or misogynistic.
2:
and hHis election and policies sparked numerous protests and led to the creation of a political movement and cult of personality.[a]
ReferencesBootsED (talk) 03:14, 7 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
A brief consideration:
The sentence should clarify who these "historians and scholars" are by identifying the institution that represents them collectively or at least their nationality, per WP:WIKIVOICE, WP:GLOBALIZE, and WP:GLOBAL. We might also consider adding a footnote to mention the historians...
Additionally, the sentence should also specify that this is an assessment of the first presidency, rather than the incoming one, per WP:CRYSTALBALL. Pantarch (talk) 11:42, 7 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
It is natural that a large-scale real estate developer in the industry for decades would face a high number of lawsuits. It is worth mentioning in the body, but not worth mentioning in the lead. In the lead, the apparent purpose of this sentence is to portray Trump as a bad businessman, despite him becoming a billionaire and acquiring some of the most iconic properties in NYC. We already mention his "business failures" in the 1990s and shift to side ventures; I recommend removing the sentence on lawsuits, and then changing "business failures" to "bankruptcies" to be more clear. — Goszei (talk)  17:26, 7 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
Hadn't noticed this discussion — two days after the election, all hell breaking loose in the article and on this talk page. Trump's business failures, including the bankruptcies, are a defining part of his biography and lead-worthy. Since you mentioned casinos and gamblers: it's not a sign of great business acumen when you build a casino next door to your own casino and poach patrons from yourself or when you give credit to patrons so that they gamble with our own money. Space4Time3Continuum2x🖖 20:38, 13 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
To be honest, I believe content like this in this lead, as well as a continued focus on it within the article, represents us sticking our heads in the sand as editors. We are now far beyond the 2016 election, when points like this were used to attack Trump by his political opponents, and have entered a stage where he is bringing about a generational re-alignment in American politics. This lead, this article, and this encyclopedia should seek to clearly explain why Trump appealed to the electorate in 2016 and why he continues to do so, and explain the roots of his movement, which has only grown over the last 8 years. In many places, we miss the forest for the trees: as many political scientists and historians have concluded, Trump won not because he was racist and his voters were too, but because his message exploited an absence within the political establishment of anyone speaking to the interests of the population. We need to weave his ascendancy together with the facts of 40 years of stagnant wages, the financial crash of 2008, the abandonment of the Rust Belt, and the declining living standards of the working class. I write a lot of this up to WP:RECENTISM, but now that he was elected a second time, it is clear that he isn't an aberration but a key figure in U.S. history, and our encyclopedia should reflect this. Perhaps I am asking too much for the nature of this project, but I think this is important, and hope this article improves along these lines in the years of chaos to come. Rant over. — Goszei (talk)
I am unsure what any of the text of this section has to do with "Public Image". Could someone clarify this for me? Rollinginhisgrave (talk) 06:58, 8 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
"During Trump's term in office, he visited a Trump Organization property on 428 days, one visit for every 3.4 days of his presidency"
This includes his private residences, such as Mar-a-lago. This does not necessarily equate to a conflict of interest and should not be in the section. This might be substantial evidence enough for political op-eds, but not Wikipedia. 
It could be phrased like 'Trump recieved criticism for often visiting his private properties'.
In-fact, alot of this article could be written in a manner similar to this.
2A00:23C5:6433:4301:C71C:6946:4971:705C (talk) 07:21, 8 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
I added material with RS that made the connection between Trump visits and influence-seekers at his private residences. They're actually commercial properties where he also maintains a private residence. Space4Time3Continuum2x🖖 15:50, 20 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
The Pennsylvania attempt is featured in the article and a link to the page about it is included, but the absence of anything about the 2nd attempt in Florida, including a link to the page for it, is strikingly absent. I'm sure authorized editors will quickly correct this honest oversight. 216.168.91.102 (talk) 22:11, 8 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
Why not a brief mention of the two assassination attempts against Trump in the lede? Surely it's up there in notability with him serving two non-consecutive terms. Evaporation123 (talk) 01:35, 9 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
I think Political career of Donald Trump, which is prominently linked from this article, could use some attention.
I have started a discussion on the talk page over there. Commander Keane (talk) 03:52, 9 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
“winning both the popular and electoral vote” this is from the newest section of the lead he did win the electoral vote but the popular vote is still being counted as of 11/8 11:20 EST he has only a 2.6% lead with millions of votes left to count particularly from California
this is assumption and there isn’t any vaild source claiming he did this needs to be removed immediately  John Bois (talk) 04:21, 9 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
I mentioned in a thread above that some of the content in #Public image has nothing to do with public image and creates verifiability issues. Having now read the main article, Public image of Donald Trump, I can see this stems from a failure to use WP:SUMMARYSTYLE. To conform, the lvl3 headings in #Public image should be the lvl2 headings in the main article, not just a spot to throw miscellanea. Such a rewrite would remove discussion of Trump's use of social media and racism, which are likely DUE for this article. I want to discuss where they should go. Keeping them in #Public image isn't an option given the violation of WP:Verifiability. Best, Rollinginhisgrave (talk) 05:32, 9 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
Here the previous thread. JacktheBrown (talk) 21:18, 9 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
Forgive me folks. But "His inauguration as the 47th president", looks terrible. It's a long blue sentence, basically. I attempted to fix this with "His inauguration as the 47th president". But was reverted. GoodDay (talk) 00:04, 10 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
I removed "In 2015, Trump's lawyer threatened Trump's colleges, his high school, and the College Board with legal action if they released his academic records" from the early life section saying it was "undue for this section". A few hours later, Farkle Griffen added it back in with the description "Explained why his academic performance is not known", not addressing the concern about whether it was giving it too much emphasis. Before I removed the text, I did a search of coverage, and found that the issue was very rarely mentioned after it was discovered, and only in passing. Giving it a relatively high amount of attention in the early life section therefore seems inappropriate. Rollinginhisgrave (talk) 23:33, 10 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
Related discussion at "Wording of sentence on Trump attending New York Military Academy" with more sources, above. Trump has claimed since the 1970s that he graduated at the top of his class at Wharton and that you had to be a super genius to be admitted to Wharton in 1966. Both claims were debunked, despite Trump not releasing his records. And in 2019 Michael Cohen turned over the threatening letters Trump had him send to Wharton and his high school. It wasn't just the news of the day, it's been mentioned in probably every Trump biography published since then. Space4Time3Continuum2x🖖 20:39, 11 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
As for need[ing] room for obvious reasons, that's [[WP:CRYSTALBALL]. My crystal ball thinks we'll end up with comparisons between his first and second presidency, resulting in fewer details for the first one. We'll have to wait and see what RS report about the second one. Space4Time3Continuum2x🖖 20:59, 11 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
Becoming only the second President in history to serve non-consecutive terms, the first being Grover Cleveland. Is the statistic leadworthy? Is Grover Cleveland leadworthy? (Also, MOS:EDITORIAL, MOS:OFFICE, and missing subject and verb.) Space4Time3Continuum2x🖖 18:21, 11 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
Removed Grover Cleveland reference Rollinginhisgrave (talk) 00:44, 12 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
 You're presuming all viewers would have enough time to read the page beyond its lead section and that's not a guarantee. To elaborate on rarity, what I'm getting at is that non-consecutive wins are an almost unprecedented occurrence that many folks once believed would never be repeated. The closest anybody came before last week was Theodore Roosevelt during the 1912 election. This is far less common than things like businesses failing or someone being racist/sexist. While I can't yet say for sure that it'll be the most prominent trait of his Presidential statistics like it appears to be for Grover, people either way would expect a straightforward mention of names when discussing only one of two in history who broke longstanding patterns. It wouldn't exactly be a big bloat to simply identify him. SNUGGUMS (talk / edits) 22:47, 12 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
 For what it's worth, there's pieces from The Daily Telegraph, The Hill, The New York Times, USA Today Miami Herald, WBC-TV (aka NBC Washington), etc. that discuss differences and similarities between the men. If you want other samples, then I could provide those as well. SNUGGUMS (talk / edits) 06:23, 13 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
SNUGGUMS, Artem P75 I had a go at evaluating the weighting RS put on claims to importance. I used a sample of sources; a different sample may generate different results.
I searched "donald trump win" (not in quotes) on Google. I opened every result for a few pages and closed pages that were attributed as an individual's opinion or analysis. I closed some that didn't discuss what the election meant. I closed some that were about a subtopic, such as the election win in Arizona, and talked about the importance to Arizona etc. Excluded articles were: [34][35][36][37][38][39][40][41][42][43][44][45][46]. I then crudely coded the results and even more crudely numerically described the emphasis the source was placing (1 being in the title, 0 being not mentioned).
Takeaways:
Rollinginhisgrave (talk) 11:50, 13 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
 By your own admission, Rollinginhisgrave, it was equal emphasis of the achievement with a discussion of Grover Cleveland. That suggests any mention of the non-consecutive wins would be an appropriate place to name the other guy. It's unreasonable to now assert otherwise and the way you did so sounds like a cheap cop-out. SNUGGUMS (talk / edits) 22:41, 13 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
Mueller’s results found nothing so that part is 100% INACCURATE. 71.205.198.48 (talk) 02:42, 12 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
Re: [47]
This keeps getting added and removed with no resolution in sight. As I understand it, the rationale for omission has been that the parents are covered by the "Trump family" link. On the other hand, so are the children and they remain linked in the infobox. I'm thinking it's parents and children, or neither. In any case, let's settle this once and, hopefully, for all. ―Mandruss ☎ 05:30, 12 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
I've posted a question here at Wikipedia talk:Manual of Style/Infoboxes. Hopefully they can clarify the intent, as there seems to be some disagreement on the talk page. Rollinginhisgrave (talk) 08:31, 12 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
Here's some material that is in our article at [48]
It doesn't appear to be worthwhile for our article, is just taking up space  and maybe we should delete it. Bob K31416 (talk) 22:59, 12 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
I think the lead in general needs a very thorough cleanup, for example the entire third paragraph, starting with:
"In his first term, Trump ordered a travel ban on citizens from several Muslim-majority countries, funded expansion of the Mexico–United States border wall..."
Should probably just be moved to the "First Presidency" section... These are things he did while he was in office for his first term so I would think that is the section where they belong rather than contributing to the bloat in the lead.
We have mention of racism and sexism in the second paragraph preceding this one, so I don't think it is appropriate to go into discussion of his policies that reflect this in the lead, but are better left to be considered in the article body per my brief understanding of MOS:LEAD, MOS:INTRO and WP:LEADLENGTH Artem...Talk 23:05, 12 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
He staged the single biggest comeback in US Political History as quoted by Newsweek, CNN and others (they agreed greater than Nixon's in 1968) achieving the 2nd highest popular vote totals ever including a record amount of support from minority voters (Black, Hispanic, Jewish, Asian) than any other Republican in history. 104.230.247.132 (talk) 08:14, 13 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
I am now out of this with a confirmed no to the suggested edit, as what we seem to have is wp:or based upon various sources that do not actually say it was the biggest comeback in US history. Slatersteven (talk) 14:32, 13 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
WP:NOTOPINION: unless you provide reliable sources supporting your opinions, you're wasting your and our time. Space4Time3Continuum2x🖖 14:40, 13 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
In a review of what reliable sources emphasised when discussing Trump's win in a thread above (see here), one conclusion drawn was that from this sample, for RS, the most significant thing about this election was it being a political comeback. I would have to look at the sources discussing the win more closely to assess how to write it (historic, biggest, attribute or not etc.), but it should be mentioned in the lede to give due weight. Rollinginhisgrave (talk) 00:40, 14 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
Users need to read wp:lead, the lead is not there for emphasis it is a summary of our article. If it aint in the body it aint going in the lead, and one line can't be summarized with one line. Slatersteven (talk) 12:30, 17 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
So again, a firm no. Time for an RFC? Slatersteven (talk) 12:56, 17 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
There has been a lot of WP:NOTFORUM vio going on here of late. Including a number of experienced editors. I'm curious:
I am moving discussion of FORUM and BITING to this more relevant thread. Context is an IP apologizing for not knowing how to link to sources. Rollinginhisgrave (talk) 00:27, 14 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
Does anybody have a formal proposal for the second half of the opening paragraph? That's all the info relating to the 2024 election results? It's been ten days & counting, so we need a stable version in place, between now & the inauguration day. PS - For goodness sake, don't add "current" or "currently" before (if included) "president-elect", as it's a useless descriptive. GoodDay (talk) 04:50, 15 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
Hi Space4Time3Continuum2x, I saw you moved the discussion of religion and family back to "Early life and education". I don't think there are any good options here, as the article is not structed as a biography. The article to compare to would be Ronald Reagan, as he is the most recent president that is a featured article (and helpfully he also had a prominent pre-political career). Some thoughts on reorganization to better meet this I'd like to hear your perspective on:
Rollinginhisgrave (talk) 18:37, 15 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
There is currently a proposal to rename Racial views of Trump at § Changing the title. Editors here are invited to participate: this will impact the section heading "Racial views" in this article per summary style Rollinginhisgrave (talk) 20:22, 15 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
Can anyone here recommend a Trump biography? My plan is to read one good biography. Looking at the bibliography, maybe What Were We Thinking, or one by Philip Rucker and Carol Leonnig, Jonathan Karl, Bob Woodward, Jennifer Mercieca, Maggie Haberman, Fred Trump III, ? Other than a historical  bias learned from my mother, I have no horse in this race, and am trying to keep an open mind. -SusanLesch (talk) 14:17, 16 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
P.S. Suggest we don't underestimate the Internet Archive. I went through the first half of the bibliography and found these. Most of the others are available only to persons with print disabilities.
-SusanLesch (talk) 17:31, 17 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
Item 8 requires including that "Trump was the first U.S. President without prior military or government service" in the lead.
A LOT has happened since 2016 (when this item was added) that deserves mention in the lead, and in proportion, this detail is very minor. Currently this random trivia takes up about as much space the entire mention of Covid-19. 
In the same vein as my previous post, we need to start making room in the lead for the soon-to-come paragraph about his 2nd term. Including minor trivia like this is not the precedent that should be set. Farkle Griffen (talk) 00:37, 18 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
Donald John Trump (born June 14, 1946) is an American politician, media personality, and businessman who served as the 45th and 47th president of the United States from 2017 to 2021 and from 2025 to 2029. 
Trump graduated with a bachelor's degree in economics from the University of Pennsylvania in 1968. After becoming president of the family real estate business in 1971, he renamed it the Trump Organization. After a series of bankruptcies in the 1990s, he launched side ventures, mostly licensing the Trump name. From 2004 to 2015, he produced and hosted the reality television series The Apprentice. In 2015, Trump launched a presidential campaign and became the Republican Party's nominee, leading to the creation of Trumpism.
Trump won the 2016 presidential election despite losing the popular vote, becoming the first U.S. president without prior military or government service. His election and policies sparked numerous protests. He lost re-election in 2020 but falsely claimed widespread electoral fraud, attempted to overturn the results, and facilitated the January 6 Capitol attack. He ran again in 2024 and won both the electoral and popular vote, making him one of two U.S. presidents elected to serve non-consecutive terms.[b] As president, he attempted to reduce the number of refugees and illegal† immigrants entering the U.S., had a foreign policy which was characterized as unpredictable and inconsistent, appointed three† Supreme Court justices, reacted slowly to the COVID-19 pandemic, and pursued an aggressive trade policy.†
Many of Trump's comments and actions have been characterized as racially charged, racist, and misogynistic. He promoted conspiracy theories and made many false and misleading statements during his campaigns and presidencies, to a degree unprecedented in American politics. In 2024, he was found guilty of falsifying business records,[c] becoming the first U.S. president convicted of a felony.[d] He was the only U.S. president to be impeached twice†; the Senate acquitted him in both† cases.[e] Scholars and historians rank Trump as one of the worst presidents in American history.†
 
NotesBringing two comments down from Talk:Donald Trump#Motion to repeal Current Consensus item 8 to a new thread. They are addressing the sentence His election and policies sparked numerous protests in the lede.
I have no strong opinion on this one. But the mention of protests after his first election 100% is UNDUE in the lead. R. G. Checkers talk 00:08, 19 November 2024 (UTC)
Rollinginhisgrave (talk) 01:24, 19 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
According to my experimentation, the addition of ~12 typical-sized citations would cause the article to exceed the system-imposed WP:PEIS limit. When that happens, templates near the bottom of the article start breaking with an error message. Otherwise, the article is fine; nobody is even aware there's a problem unless they scroll down there and see the message. Still, it's a problem worth addressing and I think it's better to be proactive than reactive about this. Possible solutions:
Other kinds of templates will also contribute to PEIS, but I don't know how much without looking into it more.
Anyway, the PEIS limit would appear to impose an arbitrary upper limit on article size, assuming the number of citations is roughly proportional to article size—and this article is very close to that limit. Maybe that's not all bad? ―Mandruss ☎ 11:35, 19 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
Here is a new infobox I've designed in my user sandbox.

WorldMappings (talk) 21:31, 19 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
Should the lead contain a brief description of Trumpism, which it currently mentions without further explanation? I added one, but Farkle Griffin reverted me, citing length concerns. I agree with the recent lead cuts, but the statement "Trump created Trumpism" without further description is meaningless, and I think it benefits readers to briefly explain what he stands for politically without requiring them to click through and read the lead of the other article. Here is a brief, 12-word proposal: "In 2015, Trump launched a presidential campaign which led to the Trumpism movement, characterized by right-wing populism, "America First" nationalism, protectionism, and loyalty to himself." The specifics are up for debate. — Goszei (talk)  21:55, 20 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
@Farkle Griffen Since I did one revert already on the page I will refrain to go further and I am opening a discussion to discuss that precise phrase.
This is the version that was recently added and that I find the best:
In his first term, he ordered a travel ban limiting refugees from Muslim-majority countries
and this is yours:
In his first term, he ordered the "Muslim ban" limiting refugees
I really feel like the first formulation is extremelly more clear. It manages to say in a couple of words what that executive order was about, previous formulations and your latest are difficult to grasp for someone who is not already familiar with the topic.
Why did you feel the need for the change? And what do other editors think? Cinemaandpolitics (talk) 23:58, 20 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
The jury had merely returned a verdict. Only a judge can convict someone - a judge can still throw the jury's verdict away. While extremely rare, it can happen.
Wikipedia's definition agrees: "A  convict is "a person found guilty of a crime and sentenced by a court" or "a person serving a sentence in prison". Source: Convict - Wikipedia
Notice it says "found guilty of a crime" AND "sentenced by a court." Only a judge can do the latter.
According to the American Bar: "The decision of the jury doesn t take effect until the judge enters a judgment on the decision - that is, an order that it be filed in public records." Source: How Courts Work - Americanbar.org "Judgement"
So no, Trump has not been convicted of any felony. All that has happened is a jury has returned a verdict. Please change the lede to reflect Wikipedia's own definition of convict as well as basic knowledge of how courts work. Thank you! McDonaldsGuy (talk) 08:32, 21 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
To demonstrate that you are not adding original research, you must be able to cite reliable, published sources that are directly related to the topic of the article and directly support[a] the material being presented.Liger404 Thankyou for your work here. Unfortunately, what you're describing above is considered original research: have a read of the "Smith and Jones" example in that page. None of the secondary sources you or other editors have found at this time are considered reliable, I've had a quick look and couldn't find anything either. The best place to go from here would be to ask the reference desk or Wikiproject Law if reliable sources verify this. Rollinginhisgrave (talk) 10:01, 22 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
I tried to change the order of sentences on lead, following the logic that would describe his first presidency and comments on third paragraph, and putting informations related to officials trials and such on fourth. There is no perfect "chronological" order either way, and that felt smoother to me, and it avoids mixing together two different kind of facts that are taking different paths (journalistic commentary or judicial system).
@Farkle Griffen why do you feel that the other formulation is better?
For other editors, this is the diff: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Donald_Trump&diff=1258711727&oldid=1258705669 Cinemaandpolitics (talk) 12:06, 21 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
For a few weeks we have been discussing in multiple sections on talk the need to have something that would relate to Trump rise to power. Some editors agreed, some didn't. For me this seems mandatory, since Trump winning the first election is the most notable event of his life and it needs proper context. In my opinion Goszei additions to the second paragraph manage to make that description clear and concise. Editor @Nikkimaria reverted them with explanation "overdetail". I disagree, there is a missing flow in the lead that is filled in by these additions, they are also not overdetailed and the second paragraph has space for them.
Goszei edit:
In 2015, Trump launched a presidential campaign which gave rise to Trumpism, a political movement characterized by right-wing populism, "America First" nationalism, and economic protectionism.
the reversion by Nikkimaria:
In 2015, Trump launched a presidential campaign which led to the Trumpism movement.
Also another detail that said "and focused on luxury accommodation" was removed. It helps to define what Trump was known for. Before that the lead went in even more detail with the kind of properties Trump invested in. Cinemaandpolitics (talk) 12:17, 21 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
There are civilian contractors who are distinct from the military. Civilian contractors are not part of the government, whereas the military is part of the government's department of defense. In fact, the chief commander of the military is the president. Indeed, the department of defense is the largest department of the government in terms of number of employees. Therefore, the sentence 'Trump won the 2016 presidential election and became the first U.S. president without prior military or government service.' makes no sense and should be reworded to 'Trump won the 2016 presidential election and became the first U.S. president without prior government service.'
Just my 2 cents. 206.176.149.191 (talk) 12:51, 22 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
Re; this reversion of my edits. Hi ValarianB, I explained my edits as aligning the text with the sources. If you would like to reinstate the previous version, ensure the text better aligns with the sources. For context, I changed a sentence from:
I also removed several sources for not verifying this information and the descriptor of embracing far-right extremism. I did this per my readthrough of the sources, seeing if they were verifying the text, seen below.

SME: Could be a fascist in 2nd term based on promises
As seen, only four sources are discussing the attitudes of historians and scholars as classes re; 2024 conduct. I clarified that this was held by "some" scholars and historians; none of the sources made a stronger claim except ambiguously the ABC News piece on historians views of fascism; the rest all qualified with "some". Many sources didn't discuss historians or historians at all. Those four sources actually discussing attitudes among historians and scholars were retained. Two sources mentioned populism, both subject matter experts, although only one in the context of Trump's 2024 rhetoric and neither commented on beliefs among historians and scholars as a class. Populism as a descriptor was removed, it is already mentioned in a more relevant place earlier: Trump's political positions and rhetoric were described as right-wing populist.
Only one source supported the descriptor "embraced far-right extremism", and it was entirely sourced to the analysis of a non-subject-matter-expert journalist; insufficient for an extraordinary claim. Citing academic consensus to news pieces is already insufficient but is retained until further reading can be performed. Rollinginhisgrave (talk) 16:35, 22 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
Peter Baker's analysis says today that when the votes are all in, Mr. Trump's total will fall below 50%. We should prepare to state that he ran three times, was elected twice, and never won the popular vote.[1]
References-SusanLesch (talk) 16:47, 22 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
216.165.197.66 (talk) 17:01, 22 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
Cite error: There are <ref group=lower-alpha> tags or {{efn}} templates on this page, but the references will not show without a {{reflist|group=lower-alpha}} template or {{notelist}} template (see the help page).
