
Editors who repeatedly or seriously fail to adhere to the purpose of Wikipedia, any expected standards of behaviour, or any normal editorial process may be blocked or restricted by an administrator. Editors are advised to familiarise themselves with the contentious topics procedures before editing this page.The part in the infobox talking about religion is largely outdated with more recen studies depicting a different attitude towards religion.
https://www.kathimerini.gr/society/562979893/dimoskopisi-dianeosis-statheri-axia-i-thriskeia-kai-nea-agonia-gia-to-klima/
This study says that 18.9% of the population doesnt believe in religion.
While in this study "The U.S. government estimates the total population at 10.5 million (midyear 2022). According to research polls, 81 to 90 percent of the population identifies as Greek Orthodox, 4 to 15 percent as atheist, and 2 percent as Muslim."
https://www.state.gov/reports/2022-report-on-international-religious-freedom/greece/ Takis S1 (talk) 14:48, 25 June 2024 (UTC)[reply]
Why doesn't Greece on Wikipedia have establishment dates before 1830? In other countries you have establishment dates much earlier than the modern establishment of the state, such as Turkey, Egypt, Bulgaria, etc.
There are many examples of the establishment of a Greek state in the past such as the Union of Corinth, the Union of Deilos, the Macedonian empire, and the later Byzantine empire.
There is even a Wikipedia page that refers to it under the title "Greek Empire"
https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greek_Empire Ypoferomai (talk) 20:53, 8 September 2024 (UTC)[reply]
The list of Greek cities shows Piraeus, which, however, as mentioned in the relevant article, belongs to the urban area of Athens.  So I think that either Piraeus should be removed from the list of cities in the article, or that the other cities - municipalities that belong to Athens should be added. Νίκος Αστέρης (talk) 13:16, 13 October 2024 (UTC)[reply]
Yesterday i made a change there that it was saying that Greece is considered the birthplace of western civilization. I wrote that Greece is the birthplace of western civilization. Also at the western civilization you have a wrong link that doesnt lead to the page of western civilization but leads to the western culture instead so i put the correct link. You changed again these things that i wrote. Why you dont let other members to edit the pages?Everyone can edit in wikipedia. And the changes that i made are both correct. Put again the changes that i made. Also in the paragraph in the economy page that you write the numbers of the gdp and gdp per capita are still the old ones while at the box in the first page are the new ones. You have to change them in the paragraph. Alikakii (talk) 03:59, 16 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
