 Hello, I'm Materialscientist. I wanted to let you know that I reverted one of your recent contributions —specifically this edit to Tokyo Xtreme Racer 3—because it did not appear constructive. If you would like to experiment, please use the sandbox. If you have any questions, you can ask for assistance at the Help desk. Thanks. Materialscientist (talk) 05:15, 23 April 2020 (UTC)[reply]
Hi Mr. X 235528! Thanks for contributing to Wikipedia. Be our guest at the Teahouse! The Teahouse is a friendly space where new editors can ask questions about contributing to Wikipedia and get help from experienced editors like Lectonar (talk).
Delivered by HostBot on behalf of the Teahouse hosts

Hi. Thank you for your recent edits. An automated process has detected that when you recently edited Birshrestha Noor Mohammad Public College, you added a link pointing to the disambiguation page Republicans. Such links are usually incorrect, since a disambiguation page is merely a list of unrelated topics with similar titles. (Read the FAQ •  Join us at the DPL WikiProject.)
It's OK to remove this message. Also, to stop receiving these messages, follow these opt-out instructions. Thanks, --DPL bot (talk) 06:17, 4 July 2024 (UTC)[reply]
An automated process has detected that when you recently edited Joseph Radetzky von Radetz, you added a link pointing to the disambiguation page Battle of Caldiero. 
(Opt-out instructions.) --DPL bot (talk) 08:24, 1 August 2024 (UTC)[reply]
 Hello, I'm Waxworker. I noticed that you added or changed content in an article, One Piece: Unlimited Adventure, but you didn't provide a reliable source. It's been removed and archived in the page history for now, but if you'd like to include a citation and re-add it, please do so. You can have a look at  referencing for beginners. If you think I made a mistake, you can leave me a message on my talk page. Thank you.  Waxworker (talk) 15:31, 22 October 2024 (UTC)[reply]
Hello! Voting in the 2024 Arbitration Committee elections is now open until 23:59 (UTC) on Monday, 2 December 2024. All eligible users are allowed to vote. Users with alternate accounts may only vote once.
The Arbitration Committee is the panel of editors responsible for conducting the Wikipedia arbitration process. It has the authority to impose binding solutions to disputes between editors, primarily for serious conduct disputes the community has been unable to resolve. This includes the authority to impose site bans, topic bans, editing restrictions, and other measures needed to maintain our editing environment. The arbitration policy describes the Committee's roles and responsibilities in greater detail.
If you wish to participate in the 2024 election, please review the candidates and submit your choices on the voting page.  If you no longer wish to receive these messages, you may add {{NoACEMM}} to your user talk page. MediaWiki message delivery (talk) 00:46, 19 November 2024 (UTC)[reply]
